<!-- add header with bibfile, bibstyle, make two versions, one MS, one diss -->
<!-- prep for diss style file -->

#Introduction

Contact with the criminal justice system has a host of consequences for families. Incarceration has a profound effect on family complexity and stability. The incarceration of a family member strains the emotional and material resources of children's caregivers in ways that are known to cause both short and long-term harm to children. The arrest or incarceration of a parent or caregiver presents an immediate crisis for the care of a child, demanding that either kin, fictive kin, or the state step in to provide care for the children of adults who come into contact with the criminal justice system (PITTMAN, BERGER, CHRIS) 

While entanglement with the criminal justice system has known causal effects on child maltreatment and family inequality (CHRIS, OTHERS?), criminal justice systems also act as a key point of entry into the child welfare system (EMPIRICAL STUFF, ROBERTS). Child welfare systems are responsible for the investigation of alleged child abuse and neglect and empowered to separate children from their families. However, child welfare systems lack direct and active surveillance resources. Instead, they rely on a diffuse network of street-level professionals and community members to identify and report suspected child abuse or neglect. Police play a major role in the surveillance of families. Police are legally obliged to report suspected child abuse and neglect, and about one fifth of all reports of child abuse and neglect originate from law enforcement. In 2015 X # of investigated reports originated from police (CITE NCANDS).  

Because police play such a prominent role in the origination of child maltreatment reports, it is likely that the organization and spacial distribution of policing plays an important role in determining whether a family comes into contact with the child welfare system. Child welfare system involvement may be an important and consequential spillover consequence of criminal justice contact. Police contact may directly affect the likelihood of a family's contact with the child welfare system through observing and reporting suspected child abuse and neglect (a surveillance effect) or by incapacitating a caregiver through arrest (a destabilization effect). The social organization of policing may play a direct role in determining which families experience the scrutiny of the state, which children who are victims of abuse and neglect come to the attention of the child welfare system, and determining which families experience the disruption of an incarcerated family member [FOOTNOTE ON SECOND ORDER CONSEQUENCES].

Both the resources available to police departments and the styles of their interactions with the public are tightly coupled with the geographies of race, class and gender (LOTS OF CITES). STAFFING LEVELS, STOP PATTERNS, STYLES OF INTERACTION, TRUST, ENFORCEMENT PRIORITIES, PUNISHMENT.  STUFF ON RACE, CLASS, GENDER PLACE AND POLICING. Patterns of over-policing and under-policing have direct implications not only for criminal justice, but also for child protection. The racial geography of policing may play an important role in producing and magnifying profound racial inequalities across the child welfare system. On the one hand, race may play a direct role in determining which children who are victims of abuse and neglect are identified by child welfare agencies. On the other, race may determine which families experience excessive scrutiny or harmful disruptions. DISTINGUISH TRUE AND FALSE POSITIVES, FAILED DETECTIONS (2x2 malt, report) IN REPORTS AS SURVEILLANCE CONSEQUENCE MAYBE IN THE SETUP BELOW. DISRUPTION * MALT is consequential - if MALT=FALSE, DISRUPTION ESPECIALLY HARMFUL, MAYBE NOT IF MALT=TRUE.

Using administrative data on investigated reports of child abuse and neglect in the U.S. from 2000 through 2014, I evaluate whether the organization and enforcement activities of police departments help to explain variation in the number of child abuse and neglect reports filed by law enforcement across counties. I will also evaluate whether short-term changes in patterns of policing help to explain longitudinal variation in counts of child abuse and neglect reports filed by police within counties.

Family surveillance is an inherently multi-institutional effort. By investigating how the activities of police relate to child maltreatment reporting, this study seeks to clarify the role that criminal justice plays in structuring which families come under suspicion of child abuse and neglect and whether these patterns contribute to family inequality. Contact with law enforcement opens up a family to the monitoring and intervention of both the criminal justice and the child welfare systems. In so doing, police act as a conduit through which families and children encounter both the potentially life-saving resources and the highly disruptive interventions of the child welfare system. 

#Policing as surveillance

Police conduct both active surveillance of individuals and families, driven by their direct observations and perceptions of suspicious or illegal behavior, and reactive surveillance, driven by third-party reports and complaints about suspicious, nuisance, or dangerous behavior. In so doing, they act as the central instrument of detection and intervention for the criminal justice system. We obtain official knowledge (hence actionable through policy) about the intensity and varieties of criminal activity through the activities of police organizations and community engagement with police organizations. Police serve as a central institution through which information about deviant or socially problematic behavior is systematically collected and directed to a variety of public and private organizations tasked with documenting and intervening in family and community life. Police thus produce both the actionable information used in criminal-legal procedures and the kinds of demographic and public health surveillance that a wide variety of policy and research organizations use to measure behavior and population well-being. 

The probability of police contact with a particular individual or family has profound consequences for the distribution of both coercive and demographic surveillance across communities. Because the distribution of policing resources is not socially uniform <!-- (say more about presence of police, styles of interaction across space, toward differently racialized people in different spaces) --> and the mode of police-public interaction across subjects is variable, the probability of detecting particular kinds of behavior of concern to criminal justice and welfare bureaucracies is uneven across places and across groups. 

While some forms of crime are highly unlikely to go undetected (such as homicide), many other behaviors or incidents police are tasked with detecting are sensitive to the social organization of policing and are unlikely to be brought to the state's attention unless police or those who report to the police actively look for and respond to suspicions. For example, if two places and have identical rates of a particular kind of criminal behavior, the *reported* rate of this criminal behavior behavior will be a function of the organization of police surveillance activity in each of these places. The production of reports is sensitive to inputs from police agencies and social contexts (the organization of patrols, force size, enforcement priorities, bias), and from the propensity of community members to report suspicious or dangerous occurrences to the police (trust, organizational routines, bias). 

Police are not only tasked with detecting criminaWl behavior. Police increasingly act as points-of-entry for a range of both coercive and welfarist institutions (CITE NEOLIB WELFARE STUFF). In all U.S. jurisdictions (CHECK HISTORY OF REPORTING LAW), they are also mandated reporters of child abuse and neglect. When they suspect that a child has been or may become a victim of child abuse or neglect, mandated reporters are required by law to notify state or local child protection offices, who are then tasked with investigating and responding to the allegations (often accompanied by police). Police may be particularly likely to report suspected abuse or neglect they detect as a result of their investigation and enforcement activities related to other potentially criminal offenses. As a result, police act as a major conduit through which states come to know about a case of child abuse or neglect, and through which families come into contact with child protection agencies. In 2014 X percent of all investigated reports of abuse and neglect originated from police. In this study, I investigate whether the organization and enforcement priorities of local police agencies influences the rates at which police report child abuse and neglect to state child protection systems. 

<!-- CONSIDER CUTTING THIS SECTION. NOT DIRECTLY NEEDED FOR QUESTION. CAN QUICKLY SUMMARIZE WITH A COUPLE OF CITATIONS ELSEWHERE. WOULD TAKE A LOT OF SPACE TO HANDLE, AND DOESN'T DIRECTLY MATTER FOR THIS ANALYSIS

#Crime, criminal justice, and the family

Contact with the criminal justice system has a wide range of consequences for families. LIST THEM.

Mass incarceration, in particular, has become a powerful engine of family disruption for poor families of color. LIST CONSEQUENCES

Low-level forms of criminal justice contact also have consequences. LIST THEM

But police are street-level agents for the CWS. Patterns of police-civilian contact affect the distribution of family surveillance. 

Of course, police contact is confounded with crime and likely confounded with child maltreatment. Crime, esp violence, v. bad for kids. LIST IMPACTS OF CRIME AND VIOLENCE ON KIDS AND FAMILIES -->

#POLICING AND CHILD WELFARE SURVEILLANCE

Child welfare agencies lack direct surveillance capacities. They receive and respond to reports of child abuse and neglect filed by a wide range of street-level bureaucrats and community members. 

Police are sentinels for state and local child welfare systems. In 2015, police reported XX percent of all investigated reports of child abuse and neglect (xx number total). In addition to cases in which police are primarily responding to allegations of child maltreatment or endangerment, a family may come into contact with police through activities that are not directly related to suspicions of child abuse and neglect such as traffic or patrol stops or serving warrants for arrest. The social organization and spacial distribution of policing may have micro-level consequences for child and family well-being at the same time as policing may contribute to the institutionalization of distinctly gendered and racialized punitive approaches to child protection and family intervention (CITES).

Child welfare investigations are a likely spillover consequence of police contact. Each encounter between a family and a police officer is an opportunity for child maltreatment surveillance. Volumes of maltreatment reports filed by police should increase as a function of the exposure to family surveillance at the place-level. In places where families have more frequent interactions with law enforcement, police have more opportunities to observe families for signs of abuse and neglect, and hence, more opportunities to file reports of potential child maltreatment with a state child protection agency. The intensity of child maltreatment surveillance is likely directly proportional to the frequency of interactions between mandated reporters of child abuse and neglect and families. 

The fact of police interaction itself may also become grounds for maltreatment investigations or out-of-home placements. An arrest may be a consequence of suspicion of criminal activity that may itself constitute child abuse or neglect as defined by state or federal law. Police may respond to reports of family violence in which children are victims or are believed to be at risk of victimization. Prenatal drug exposure is classified as child abuse under federal law (CITE CAPTA), and is routinely prosecuted as a criminal charge. The presence of drugs in a household is both grounds for criminal prosecution and for child abuse and neglect investigations (FOOTNOTE BALKO ON ENFORCEMENT, CITE STATE LAWS, FOOTNOTE DRUG MALT DEBATES). Routine law enforcement detects potentially criminal behavior by parents or other family members that may in-and-of itself harm children or constitute child abuse and neglect as defined by federal and state statute.

Police likely also play a direct role in generating conditions that present an immediate crisis to families. If a parent or other caretaker is arrested, this presents an immediate crisis for the care of a child that may result the generation of a maltreatment report or in immediate foster care placement. This effect may be more pronounced when mothers or other women acting as kin-caregivers are arrested, as women provide the overwhelming majority of primary care for children (CITES AND FOOTNOTES). Because the primary intervention available to law enforcement is detention, an increased frequency of interactions between police and families is likely to increase the volume of children coming to the attention of child welfare agencies. Arrest and detention disrupt the ability of families to care for children by incapacitating caregivers or others who provide crucial resources to families. 

<!-- https://projects.propublica.org/graphics/maternity-drug-policies-by-state 
https://www.childwelfare.gov/pubPDFs/drugexposed.pdf
-->

At the same time, criminal records and arrests without convictions convey a powerful social signal to street-level bureaucrats and other community members. Both prior and present contact with the criminal justice system produce powerful social stigmas that likely bias the decision making of both police and child welfare agency caseworkers. Places with more aggressive police forces mark larger proportions of their populations as the subjects of criminal suspicion or convicted criminals. The label 'criminal' is highly racialized and gendered (CTIATIONS), and carries with it implications of irresponsibility and dangerousness that easily connote parental unfitness. The application of criminal stigma may have varying consequences for women and for people of color based on deep normative associations. 

In addition to the immediate effect that police suspicion has on bureaucratic appraisals of the incidence of abuse or neglect within a family, high-levels of police contact may create second-order consequences for child abuse and neglect reporting, including the widespread application of criminal stigma. Aggressive policing may also create ecological conditions of family instability, as the resources of kin and fictive kin who may provide informal solutions for short-term family crisis are taxed with an increasing density of criminal justice contact.

Policing regimes vary tremendously across places. Resource constraints including budgets and the size of police forces, state and local legal contexts, and local managerial and legal actors all influence both the quantity and quality of policing in a community (CITES). The organization and implementation of local law enforcement structures the frequency of interactions police have with communities, the kinds of criminal offending that they direct their energies toward, and the places and communities in which they focus their efforts. While policing for violent and property offenses is largely reactive, that is, in response to discrete complaints, drug enforcement and quality-of-life policing are subject to tremendous law enforcement discretion. The kinds of people police come into contact with is likely influenced by the enforcement priorities of police agencies, which may have implications for maltreatment reporting. Given that parental drug use often legally constitutes neglect, placing a high priority on drug enforcement is very likely to increase the frequency of police maltreatment reporting. 

Police agencies may also exhibit considerable within-place variability. Police interactions with the public are tightly structured by race and gender (CITATIONS). African Americans are disproportionately subject to routine interaction with law enforcement. Native Americans are also arrested and incarcerated at incredibly high rates. Racial bias in the distribution of policing resources and in street-level decisions by officers of who to stop and who to arrest increase the exposure of families of color to police surveillance, and likely increase the likelihood of maltreatment reporting. GENDER MATTERS TOO


INEQUALITY MECHANISMS: 
FIRST ORDER
1. geographic distribution of policing
2. law enforcement priorities - esp drugs - may play for both race/gender

SECOND ORDER
1. Family destabilization - ecological concentration

Suspect treatment heterogeneity

1. Arrest has different social meaning for PoC/White, Men/Women
2. Maltreatment suspicion | police contact likely has racial and gradient, ideas about parental fitness racialized, gendered

Theorize institutional, individual mechanisms. Theorize by race, gender, offense. Ensure ecological inference. Make predictions for causal relations of police capacity, contact, and predictions for treatment heterogeneity. 

Can speculate on policy regimes -> policing/CPS in discussion. Welfare retrenchment and residual institutions

PREDICTIONS

1. Places with high volumes of arrests, large police budgets, and high police staffing levels will have high volumes of police reported maltreatment investigations.
	a. The relationship between policing and reporting will vary by race, and gender, and offense
		i. The slope of the relationship between policing variables will be greater for Black/AI than for White. 
		ii. The slope of the relationship between arrest and reporting will be greater for women than men
2. Changes in rates of arrests and police staffing will affect rates of reporting at the place level. 
	b. The relationship between policing and reporting will vary by race, and gender, and offense 
		i. same
		ii. same

Start with all models - then compare, viol, qol, drug

#Analytic strategy

*THESE ARE THE PROPOSAL QUESTIONS*

1) Do police force budgets, numbers of sworn officers, and number of arrests predict the count of reports of child abuse and neglect filed by police officers at the county-year level? Do these relationships vary for reports about children and families of color?

2) Do shifts in enforcement priorities predict within-county changes in counts of reports of child abuse and neglect filed by police officers? Do these relationships vary for children and families of color? 

To evaluate whether the organization and implementation of policing effects the surveillance of families for child abuse and neglect, I use a series of administrative and demographic datasets to construct a series of regression models for investigated child abuse and neglect reports filed by police at the county-year level. These ecological models allow for an exploration of how policing priorities, staffing levels, and budgets relate to the volume of child abuse and neglect cases that originate from law enforcement. As such, these models cannot adjudicate micro-level mechanisms (i.e. whether families who encounter law enforcement are more likely to become subject to a child maltreatment investigation). Instead, I focus on identifying whether places with more or less aggressive and more or less well-resourced police agencies engage in more frequent child abuse and neglect reporting. This strategy leverages these comprehensive administrative data systems to explore how local police agency characteristics affect family surveillance both across jurisdictions and within-jurisdictions over time. 

Counts of reports of child abuse or neglect that were ultimately investigated by state or local child welfare agencies that were initially filed by police serve as the outcome for all models presented below. Focal predictors include arrest rates (by type of offense, by gender, and by race of arrestee), police officer staffing levels per capita, and police agency budgets per capita. These models explore both whether variation in policing characteristics help to explain variation in rates of child abuse and neglect reporting by police across counties and whether short-term changes in policing predict changes in rates of abuse and neglect reporting within counties. Evidence for short-term within-county relationships can provide stronger evidence of a potentially causal relationship, while cross-county relationships identify whether variation in policing regimes across places helps to explain high-levels of geographic variation in maltreatment reporting.

Different kinds of law enforcement priorities may be more or less likely to result in law enforcement's interaction with families, and are subject to greater or lesser degrees of agency discretion. Police responses to violent and property offenses are largely reactive, in response to public calls or complaints. By contrast, police departments have far higher levels of flexibility in deciding whether, where, and how to enforce drug laws. They also have considerable flexibility in deciding whether to engage in aggressive policing of low-level violations, in strategies frequently described as broken windows or quality-of-life policing. Evidence for relationships among drug or quality-of-life arrests and maltreatment reporting would provide stronger evidence of a policing-family surveillance relationship than would relationships among violent or property arrests and maltreatment reporting, because police have less discretion in responding to violent and property offenses than they do in enforcing drug or quality-of-life violations. Additionally, parental drug use often legally constitutes child abuse or neglect; law enforcement prioritization of drug enforcement is then particularly likely to increase rates of reported child maltreatment.

Because both policing and child protection are deeply racialized and gendered legal and administrative practices [@roberts_prison_2012; @rios_punished:_2011; @soss_learning_2017], there may be substantial heterogeneity in the relationships between policing and family surveillance for families of color relative to white families, and for women relative to men. Ideas about parental fitness are deeply intertwined with race, class, and family structure in ways that are likely to profoundly affect the likelihood of a maltreatment report conditional on police contact. To explore this possibility, I construct separate models for relationships between policing and maltreatment reporting based on counts of arrests at the county-year level by the kind of offense, as well as the race and gender of arrestees. Police may appraise families of color to be more dangerous to children's well-being than they would similar white families. Such heterogeneity in risk of reporting would produce varying functional relationships between policing and reporting by race even after accounting for racial inequalities in rates of police contact. Women who are subject to arrest may be more likely to be appraised as a danger to their children by police and child welfare agencies than would similarly situated men. Women of color are likely subjected to particularly extreme bias in law enforcement and child welfare agency labeling of parental unfitness, however, available data provide counts of arrests by gender or by race, not by both gender and race.

Spacial variation in child maltreatment reporting is, of course, partially explained by variation in actual rates of child abuse and neglect, and variation in rates of arrest is partially explained by variation in actual rates of crime. To control for heterogeneity in risk for child abuse and neglect across counties, I include controls for rates of child poverty, among the most powerful predictors of substantiated child abuse and neglect, and rates of infant mortality, a very strong predictor of general child and family well-being. To provide a partial control for heterogeneity in crime across counties, I include a control for homicides known to the police per capita. This measure provides information about actual rates of violent offending at the place-level that is less directly dependent on law enforcement priorities and organization that are arrest rates. 

##Data and measures

###Child maltreatment reports data and measures
Outcomes for this study are constructed from the National Child Abuse and Neglect Data System (NCANDS) [CITATION AND DATA NOTE]. NCANDS records case-level information on all investigated reports of child maltreatment annually with data reported from state child welfare agencies. In 2014, 46 states voluntarily reported data on these abuse and neglect investigations and their outcomes. From these case-level data, I construct counts of reports of child abuse and neglect filed by police at the county-year level (the smallest unit of geography reported in NCANDS). NCANDS de-identifies counties with fewer than 1,000 reports of child abuse and neglect filed annually, resulting in an unbalanced panel including ```R length(unique(dat$FIPS))``` unique counties between 2000 and 2014, and ```R write code to do N in all years``` counties included in each of the included annual waves of NCANDS data. Of the included counties, ```R calculate percent of counties with more than 100k population included in full NCANDS``` THEN STATEMENT ON COVERAGE OF POPULOUS COUNTIES IN US. These data allow for novel insight into the effects of police activities and organizations on surveillance, as they include information on the sources of child abuse and neglect reports for millions of reports across a wide array of jurisdictions annually. 

MISSINGNESS IN RPTSRC. Missingness in data on the source of maltreatment sources is correlated with geography, with some places reporting complete data, and others reporting high-levels of missing data on sources of reports. In 2014, ```R calculate proportion complete``` counties reported no missing data on sources of maltreatment reports, and ```R calculate proportion with >5 percent missing``` percent of counties reported more than 5 percent of their cases with missing information on the source of the report. I DO X TO DEAL WITH THIS. SUBSETS, IMPUTATIONS, REPORT SENSITIVITY.

###Crime, policing, and arrests data and measures

Focal predictors are constructed from the Uniform Crime Reports (UCR) County-Level Detailed Arrest and Offense data and the UCR Arrests by Age, Sex, and Race annual data for 2000 through 2014 [CITATIONS]. The UCR, collected by the FBI and maintained by the National Archive of Criminal Justice Data, provides the only time series data on law enforcement activity available at the jurisdiction level and covering the period of interest for this study. The UCR County-Level Detailed Arrest and Offense data provide counts of arrests for a broad range of offenses (including, but not limited to index crimes), but do not provide demographic information on those arrested. The UCR Arrests by Age, Sex, and Race series provides data on arrests for age groups by sex and race at the police agency level, which can be aggregated to the county-level as sums of agencies within particular counties. Aggregated county counts from the Arrests by Age, Sex and Race data for all arrests generally agree with county arrest counts from the County-Level Detailed Arrest and Offense data, $r=$ ```R calculate correlation in tot.arrest across two datasets ```. Because the County-Level Detailed Arrest and Offense data are subject to agency imputations and corrections and may present more reasonable counts for marginal cases, I use those data for counts of all arrests at the county-year level, and the UCR Arrests by Age, Sex, and Race data series to construct counts of arrests by offense, race, and gender at the county-year level. 

I group offenses into sets that are subject to higher or lower levels of police discretion in enforcement, then create county-year sums for all arrests, and for arrests by gender and race. Violent offenses include murder, manslaughter, rate, robbery, aggravated assault, and other assaults, largely following the FBI's classification of violent offenses in the UCR index crime classification system. I also rely on the UCR's classification of drug offenses, a set which includes either possession or sale of opiates, marijuana, synthetic narcotics, and other dangerous non-narcotic drugs. Quality of life policing captures a more diffuse set of offenses that are generally low-level and subject to high levels of officer and agency discretion in enforcement. These include vandalism, liquor laws, drunkenness, disorderly conduct, vagrancy, general suspicion, curfew and loitering, and various gambling offenses. 

I obtain information on the number of officers employed by police agencies at the county-year level from the UCR Police Employee Data (LEOKA CITATION). These data present monthly counts of assaults and killings of law enforcement officers, and include counts of total officers and employees at the agency level for all years included in this analysis. I aggregate agencies to the county-year level to construct per capita rates of police officer employment. These rates provide a comparable measure of police force size both across places and within places over time.  

The annual survey of state and local government finances provides annual data on aggregate state and local operating bugest of police agencies. Because these data are the product of a sampled survey, time-series estimates of individual police agency budgets is not feasible; the state is the lowest reliable unit available for time-series analysis. I calculate police budgets per-capita at the state-year level and adjust all figures for inflation into 2014 dollars. These data provide a general measure of the resources available to law enforcement within states. Coupled with county-level police employment data, these two measures capture the resources available to police agencies, and give us some insight into how agencies vary across places and change within-places over time.

Arrest rates reflect both law enforcement and policy decision-making and actual rates of crime. Homicide is among the more reliable measures of criminal offending (THOUGH IMPERFECT - CITE CORONERS PAPER). To partially control for selection into both arrest and child maltreatment driven by underlying rates of violence across counties, I calculate 5-year moving averages of homicides per capita from the Uniform Crime Reports Offenses Known to Law Enforcement data (CITE ICPSR). Importantly, these measures reflect all homicides reported to police, not just those for which an arrest was made. As such, they are less sensitive to the resources and organization of police agencies, and provide a better estimate of actual rates of violent offending.  

###Child and family well-being data and measures

The National Cancer Institute produces annual estimates of the size of populations in counties by race, sex and age through the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results program (SEER, CITATIONS). These population estimates provide a reliable time series of the size of adult and child populations by race for all counties and years available in the NCANDS data. I use these counts of child population size as offsets in regression models, and as denominators for estimated child poverty rates. I use counts of adults by race as denominators for crime rates, and counts of the total adult population as a denominator for homicide rates. I rely on total population counts as the denominator for calculating rates of police staffing.

Of course, rates of reported child abuse and neglect are sensitive to actual rates of child abuse and neglect. Poverty is among the strongest predictors of risk for child abuse and neglect [CITATIONS], though some argue that many cases of neglect are simply cases of family poverty [CITATIONS]. Few sources provide reliable time series estimates of child population well-being at the county-level for the period under consideration [NOTE ON 5yr ACS FOR BACK END, MAYBE ESTIMATE MODELS WITH THOSE DATA AND FULLER PANEL OF PREDICTORS]. Sample surveys are subject to substantial small-area problems for relatively small units of geography, like counties. The U.S. Census Bureau's Small Area Income and Poverty Estimates (SAIPE) provide model-based annual estimates of total population, total child population, persons in poverty, children in poverty, and median household income at the county-level, and provide estimates with far lower error than do estimates constructed from the American Community Survey (ACS). However, the SAIPE do not include information on child poverty by race, nor do they provide information on other risk factors for abuse and neglect. I supplement the SAIPE child population estimates with child poverty estimates for children of color from the 5-year American Community Survey data, accessed through NHGIS (cite).

Infant mortality is a widely used indicator of population well-being and health [CITES], and is both a strong predictor and partial subset of child abuse and neglect [CITES]. I rely on infant mortality data from the National Center for Health Statistics Detail Mortality data files, as compiled and reported through the Area Health Resources File. These data report the rate of infant deaths per thousand live births for a rolling five-year period at the state-level. Infant mortality data reported through AHRF in the 2015-2016 release are available for five-year periods beginning with 1996 - 2000 and ending with 2010 - 2014. To maximize comparability with NCANDS data, I join the five-year data according to the final year of the reporting period, so 1996 - 2000 infant mortality data are joined with 2000 NCANDS data, and 2010 - 2014 infant mortality data are joined with 2014 NCANDS data. These data are available as infant mortality rates for all children, for white children, and for non-white children. For models of all investigations, I include measures of infant mortality for a state's full population. For models of maltreatment investigations of white children, I include white infant mortality rates. For investigations involving children of color (African American and American Indian), I include state-year level non-white infant mortality rates.

Because maltreatment reporting and policing function differently in rural, suburban, and urban contexts, I include a measure of county-year population density in all models. This measure is constructed from the American Community Survey reports of county land-area. I then construct a measure of county-year population per square mile using the total estimated population of a county from the National Cancer Institute's SEER population estimates.

##Statistical models

The focal outcome for this analysis is the number of investigated reports of child abuse and neglect, reported annually for U.S. counties. I treat these variables as counts, bounded by the size of a county's child population. The relationships of interest include the associations between child maltreatment reports filed by police and rates of arrest and police force size both across counties and within counties over time. I construct a series of multilevel Poisson regression models to test whether policing itself contributes to the volume of child welfare investigations in a county. These multilevel models adjust for time-stable characteristics of counties and states, while enabling both a between-state and within-state comparison of the relationships between policing and surveillance for child abuse and neglect.

Models which include both group-mean and group-mean differenced observations as predictors enable a simultaneous estimation of both the across and within-county relationships between policing and maltreatment reporting. This approach preserves the advantages of a fixed effect within-unit model, which produces estimates of unit intercepts that are not correlated with estimated regression parameters, while enabling direct comparison across units and allowing for measures that do not vary over time [@bell_explaining_2015]. Because the mean-variance relationship of a Poisson model is unrealistic for these data, I include an observation level intercept to model overdispersion [@gelman_data_2007; @bolker_generalized_2009; @harrison_using_2014]. I offset all models by the size of the county-year child population to account for variation in the size of the population from which maltreatment reports are drawn. 

For county $i$, year $j$, state $k$, child population $\mathbf{p}$, and predictors $\mathbf{x}$, I construct a series of models for counts of investigated maltreatment reports $\mathbf{y}$. These models take the general form:

$$y_{ij} \sim \textrm{Poisson}\left( n_{ij} e^{ \gamma_i + \beta_1 j + \beta_2\bar{x_i} + \beta_3(x_{ij} - \bar{x_i}) \cdots \beta_{n-1}\bar{x_i} + \beta_{n} (x_{ij} - \bar{x_i} )+ \varepsilon_{ij}} \right)$$

$$ \gamma_i = \beta_0 + \zeta_i + \nu_k $$
$$ \zeta_i \sim \textrm{N}(0, \sigma^2_\zeta)$$
$$ \nu_k \sim \textrm{N}(0, \sigma^2_\nu)$$
$$ \varepsilon_{ij} \sim \textrm{N}(0, \sigma^2_\varepsilon)$$ 

Models are estimated using Hamiltonian Monte Carlo (FOOTNOTE rstanarm) with weakly informative priors (FOOTNOTE) for all parameters. To assess the marginal effects of policing on police reporting of child abuse and neglect, I simulate posterior predictions for scenarios in which arrests and police staffing are varied across contexts. I separately evaluate whether average levels of arrests or police staffing help to explain variation in police maltreatment reporting across counties in addition to evaluating whether short-term changes in arrests or police staffing within-counties predict shifts in the volumes of abuse and neglect reports filed by police.

In addition to a model for *all* investigated abuse and neglect reports filed by police at the county-year level, I construct a series of additional models that explore whether the relationship between policing and maltreatment surveillance vary by the race of the reported child, by the race and gender of arrestees, and for categories of arrest offenses. 


#Findings

LEAD WITH DESCRIPTIVE BIVARS ON POLICE REPORTING FROM MOST RECENT NCANDS

PUZZLE Some places with exceptionally high levels of child poverty have very low rates of abuse and neglect reporting by law enforcement. Figure 1 displays the proportions of children subject to a child abuse or neglect report by police in 2012 for those states that reported data to the National Child Abuse and Neglect Data System. In Florida, Arkansas, Michigan, Delaware, North Dakota and Alaska, more than 1,200 reports of child abuse and neglect per 100,000 children were filed by police in 2012. In Washington, Mississippi, Louisiana, Kansas, and Hawaii, police filed fewer than 500 reports of child abuse and neglect per 100,000 children. Within states, counties also vary dramatically in the volumes of reports filed by law enforcement. In this project, I seek to clarify how law enforcement practices and resources relate to family surveillance and the generation of child maltreatment reports. 

Descriptives - what kinds of malt do police report? who do they report (demographics)? changes over time? notable geographic distinctions? region/urban? Maps probably not helpful for counties... 

Model results

Model predictions 

#Discussion

Spillover CJ family implications

Strat/family implications

Surveillance studies implications

Soc of knowledge implications

POLICY IMPLICATIONS - SPELL THEM OUT V. CLEARLY

In an era of social service retrenchment, police have increasingly become points of entry to interaction with human services and social welfare organizations (CITATIONS TO MENTAL HEALTH AND POLICING?). They serve complex multi-institutional roles, act as catch-all points of interface with the state. THIS SUGGESTS A NEW HYPOTHESIS ON DELTA SOCSERV SPENDING (PROBABLY ANOTHER PAPER ON AUSTERITY AND REPORTING - RESIDUAL INSTITUTIONS AND COERCIVE SOC CONTROL? DO POLICING AND CW CONTACT GO UP W/IN PLACES AS FUNDING DISAPPEARS.). 

<!-- HYPOTHESIS - AUSTERITY-> Increased police reporting, alt social services decline, cops take on increased role -->


#Conclusion



#References